# password-generator
Challenge Description: Developers were provided with starter code for a Password Generator Web Application. Starter code included fully designed html and css document along with a javascript document that included assignment code, a function that would print a generated value onto the screen within a box, and an event listener that would begin the function on a buttonclick. The developers were tasked with writing a JavaScript Algorithm in the JS document that would have the user respond to selected criteria and use such criteria to form a safe and secured password designed of randomly selected characters.

Algorithm Explanation: My function, generatePassword(), begins by declaring two variables as empty strings: generatedPassword (which will be populated with the randomly generated password at the function's end) and availableChars (which will be populated once the user chooses to include or exclude specific character sets). Then, the function declares a third variable, charLength which will be assigned a value based on a window.prompt entry by the user. If the value is not within the range set by the acceptance criteria, then the user is alerted and prompted to enter a valid number. Once the user selects a valid character length, they must respond to a series of window.confirm alerts that will either include or exclude four different character sets into the string value of availableChars. After validating that at least one group was selected during this process, the function begins a for loop that generates characters from the now-populated availableChars length for a number of iterations equal the the number set in charLength. This selection is assigned randomnly using a combination of Math.floor and Math.random multiplied by the length of the availableChars string. Once this is done, the selected character is added to the formerly-empty string value of generatedPassword until the length of the password is equal to the number in charLength. Then, the string constructed in generatedPassword is returned and is turned into text by the function provided in the starter code.

Link to Deployed Site:

Screenshot of Deployed Site with password example included:
